GA4 content & feature updates + SEO/LLM optimizations (#15691)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/posthog-vs-ga4.mdx

    metaDescription: Looking for the best web analytics tool? Compare PostHog vs GA4 on analytics, integrations, compliance, pricing, and more to find the right fit.
---

PostHog and [Google Analytics 4 (GA4)](/blog/ga4-alternatives) are both popular tools for understanding how users interact with your website or app – but they're built with very different goals.

**GA4** is designed to track traffic, campaigns, and user behavior across websites and apps, with tight integration into Google's advertising ecosystem. It's one of the most widely deployed analytics tools in the world, and the default choice for teams who want marketing and attribution data in a familiar interface.

**PostHog** is an all-in-one developer platform that combines all the tools developers need in one place, with a single login and a single contract.

If you're looking for a [GA4 alternative](/blog/ga4-alternatives) – whether for privacy reasons, because you need more than web analytics, or because you've outgrown GA4's free tier limits – this comparison will help you decide if PostHog is the right fit.

## How is PostHog different?

### 1. We're an all-in-one platform

> PostHog combines [product analytics](/product-analytics) and [web analytics](/web-analytics) with [session replay](/session-replay), [feature flags](/feature-flags), [error tracking](/error-tracking), [experiments](/experiments), [surveys](/surveys), a baked-in [data warehouse](/docs/data-warehouse, and more into one tightly integrated platform. Everything you need from a single app with a single contract. A _genuine_ single source of truth for your product and customer data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PostHog combines [product analytics](/product-analytics) and [web analytics](/web-analytics) with [session replay](/session-replay), [feature flags](/feature-flags), [error tracking](/error-tracking), [experiments](/experiments), [surveys](/surveys), a baked-in [data warehouse](/docs/data-warehouse), and more into one tightly integrated platform. Everything you need from a single app with a single contract. A _genuine_ single source of truth for your product and customer data.
```

See our [pricing page](/pricing) for the full breakdown.

</details>

<details>
<summary>Can I migrate from Google Analytics to PostHog?</summary>

Yes – see our [Google Analytics to PostHog migration guide](/docs/migrate/google-analytics) for step-by-step instructions. You can also run PostHog alongside GA4 during a transition period, since both can be deployed simultaneously.

</details>

<details>
<summary>Does PostHog block bots by default?</summary>

Yes, **PostHog** automatically filters known bots from your event data. See the [full blocklist in our docs](/docs/product-analytics/troubleshooting#does-posthog-block-bots-by-default). 

In GA4, bot filtering is also on by default, but the filter lists differ – this can cause discrepancies between the two tools.

</details>

<details>
<summary>What about ad blockers?</summary>

We recommend [deploying a reverse proxy](/docs/advanced/proxy), which lets you send events to PostHog using your own domain. Events sent from your own domain are far less likely to be intercepted by tracking blockers, giving you more complete data. 

> We have reverse proxy setup guidesfor AWS CloudFront, Caddy, Cloudflare, Netlify, Vercel, Railway, and more.

Reviewer: The managed proxy is free now so we should probably recommend that first. These also need links probably.
```suggestion
We have reverse proxy setup guides for AWS CloudFront, Caddy, Cloudflare, Netlify, Vercel, Railway, and more.
```
